# Microsoft Glossary Synopsis: Azure Portal

> Do NOT edit this file. Use the [Synopsis Client](https://aka.ms/glossary/edit-synopsis) instead.

> Go to [the instructions to get started with a new term!](https://github.com/lbugnion/ms-glossary/blob/master/instructions/getting-started.md)

## Submitted by

Name: Laurent Bugnion

Email: lbugnion@microsoft.com

Twitter: LBugnion

GitHub: LBugnion

## Short description

The web-based user interface used to manage all Azure services in the web browser.

## Phonetics

ˈæʒər ˈpɔrtəl

## Personal notes

- Explain that there are many ways to manage Azure services
- -> Command line interaction (CLI)
- -> Powershell
- -> Bash
- -> Some development tools like Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code
- -> Azure portal on the web
- Because of its ease of use, many people start on the web
- Provides a dashboard where you can put shortcuts of your services
- Can have multiple dashboards
- Also provides visualizations of metrics
- Easy to create new resources, for example a web app
- Did you know that you can also do a lot with the Azure app on Android and iOS
- New note, ignore

## Keywords

Portal, Dashboard, Marketplace, Azure Marketplace, Azure App

## Demos

- Show how to add items to a Dashboard
- Show metrics visualizations
- Show how to add graphs to the dashboard
- Show how to create a resource (Azure Function)
- Quick demo of the Azure App

## Links to docs

- [Azure portal overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-portal/azure-portal-overview)
- [Create and share dashboards in the Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-portal/azure-portal-dashboards)
- [Azure portal how-to video series](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-portal/azure-portal-video-series)

## Links to Learn

- [Azure fundamentals](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/paths/azure-fundamentals/) (*learning path*)

## Other Links (optional)

- [Azure app](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/azure-portal/mobile-app/)
- [Azure app in Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.microsoft.azure)
- [Azure app in the iOS App store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/microsoft-azure/id1219013620?ls=1)

## Script

Today's words of the day are: Azure Portal.

Hello and welcome to Microsoft Azure Words of the Day, the show that teaches you the Azure vocabulary!

The Azure Portal is one of a few alternatives that you can use to create and manage your Azure services. It is a web based user interface. There are of course other ways to manage your services and applications such as Command Line Interaction CLI, Bash, PowerShell, Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code and more.

> Use animated screen shots of each of the solutions

In the Azure Portal, you can login using your Azure account and then you have the possibility to create a new resource easily. We have a lot of different templates and services in the marketplace. For instance here I select a web app, and then I can create it.

> Demo: How to login and create a new resource, for instance an App Service

The Azure Portal is quite easy to use and also convenient as you can create custom dashboard with links to your resources, and graphs about metrics you want to observe. You can easily add other links and graphs pointing to your resources. You can then edit and customize the dashboard.

> Demo: Adding stuff to the dashboard, editing

Another thing you might want to check is the Azure app running on iOS and Android. This app provides many of the functionalities of the web portal, including access to the cloud shell. It can show notifications when something happens in your applications and allows you to manage your services even when you don't have a laptop.

> Show the Azure app on Android, navigate through resources. Show a notification.

You can get more information about the Azure Portal and the Azure app here so don't forget to check the links. Thank you so much for watching Microsoft Azure Words of the Day. Today's words of the day were: Azure Portal.

